“Do not let your hearts be troubled. Believe in God? Believe also in Me. In my Father’s house, there are many rooms. If it were not so, I would have told you. I am going to prepare a place for you. And if I go to prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to Myself, that where I am, you may also be.” (John 14:1-3)

“But we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who have fallen asleep, that you may not grieve as others who have no hope. Since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring those who have fallen asleep with Him. For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord, that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep, for the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, the voice of the archangel, and the sound of the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord. Therefore, encourage one another with these words.” (1 Thessalonians 4:13-18)

Tim Lahaye, co-author of the Left Behind series, notes 14 events of the Rapture:

The Lord Himself will descend from His Father’s house, where He has prepared a place for us (see John 14:1-3, 1 Thessalonians 4:16).

He will come again to receive us to Himself (see John 14:1-3).

He will resurrect those who have fallen asleep in Him, those who are deceased (see 1 Thessalonians 4:14-15).

The Lord will shout as He descends. This will take place in the “twinkling of an eye” (see 1 Corinthians 15:52).

We will hear the archangel’s voice and God’s trumpet call (see 1 Thessalonians 4:16).

The dead in Christ will rise first (see 1 Thessalonians 4:16).

Then, we who are alive and remain will have our Earthly bodies transformed into our immortal, heavenly bodies (see 1 Corinthians 15:51, 53).

We will be caught up (Raptured) together (see 1 Thessalonians 4:17).

We will be caught up in the clouds, where believers from all of history will reunite (see 1 Thessalonians 4:17).

We will meet the Lord in the air (see 1 Thessalonians 4:17).