Christ will receive us to Himself and take us to the Father’s house, “That where I am, you may be also” (see John 14:3).

“And so we shall always be with the Lord” (see 1 Thessalonians 4:17).

At the call of Christ for believers, He will judge all things. Christians will stand before the judgment seat of Christ (see Romans 14:10, 2 Corinthians 5:10).

This judgment prepares Christians for the Marriage of the Lamb. Before Christ returns to the Earth in power and great glory, He will meet His bride, the church, and the marriage supper will take place. In the meantime, after the church is Raptured, the world will simultaneously suffer the unprecedented outpouring of God’s wrath, which our Lord calls the Great Tribulation (see Matthew 24:21).

Notice the phrase “caught up” from 1 Thessalonians 4:17, which comes from the Greek word harpazo. Harpazo also means snatch, carry off, lay hold of, snatch away, suddenly take away, and take by force. This will be a sudden event. In 1 Corinthians 15:52, we read a different view of this event: “Listen, I tell you a mystery; we will not all sleep, but we will all be changed—in a flash, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, the dead will be raised imperishable, and we will be changed.” So, in an instant of indivisible time, quicker than the blink of an eye, the faithful of all ages will be transformed, laid hold of, snatched away, carried off, and taken by force to be rescued from the terrible events that are to come upon the whole world (see Revelation 3:10).

Unveiling the Timing of End-Time Events

Many books have been written on the Book of Daniel’s prophecies—let us continue our study with these three verses. Daniel was an Old Testament prophet who could interpret dreams and see the future. Many know of Daniel and the lion’s den, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and King Nebuchadnezzar—but Daniel also wrote, by the inspiration of God, the backbone of prophecy about the end of the age and beyond.

Understanding Daniel helps us comprehend the timing and sequence of end-time events: “Seventy ‘sevens’ are decreed for your holy people and your holy city to finish the transgression, put an end to sin, atone for wickedness, bring in everlasting righteousness, seal up vision and prophecy, and anoint the Most Holy Place. Know and understand this: From the time the word goes out to restore and rebuild Jerusalem until the Anointed One, the ruler, comes, there will be seven ‘sevens’ and sixty-two ‘sevens’… After the sixty-two ‘sevens,’ the Anointed One will be put to death and have nothing.