The people of the ruler to come will destroy the city and the sanctuary. The end will come like a flood: War will continue until the end, and desolations have been decreed. He will confirm a covenant with many for one ‘seven.’ In the middle of the ‘seven,’ he will put an end to sacrifice and offering. And at the temple, he will set up an abomination that causes desolation, until the end that is decreed is poured out on him.” (Daniel 9:24-27)

From the passage above, the ‘sevens’ refer to periods of seven years each, so seventy ‘sevens’ represent 490 years. The first sixty-nine ‘sevens’ (483 years) began with the decree by King Artaxerxes in 457 B.C. to restore and rebuild Jerusalem. Exactly 483 years later, Jesus was crucified in 27 A.D. at the end of these sixty-nine ‘sevens.’ However, the seventieth ‘seven’ has not yet begun. The seventieth week of Daniel, this final seven-year period will begin when a covenant is confirmed between the Antichrist and Israel. The Antichrist will break this covenant in the middle of the seven years. A third temple will be rebuilt, but halfway through the seven-year period, the Antichrist will set up an image declaring himself to be ‘god.’

Thus, a gap exists between the sixty-ninth and seventieth ‘sevens.’ This gap is often called the Age of the Gentiles. Jesus came first for the Jews and then for the Gentiles, so we should be grateful that God allowed the Jews to reject Jesus as their Messiah initially. By the end of the seventieth ‘seven,’ Jesus will have Raptured His church, afflicted Israel under the global dictatorship of the Antichrist for seven years, triumphantly returned to Earth with His saints, thrown Lucifer into the abyss for a thousand years, and established His millennial reign on Earth. Israel will again have the full attention of God—though during very troubled times—and will be the centerpiece of God’s focus to bring them to repentance. This is the primary purpose of the Tribulation.

However, the path will be difficult. The Bible gives a clear warning of a coming period of unimaginable distress: “For then there will be great distress, unequaled from the beginning of the world until now—and never to be equaled again.” (Matthew 24:21)

The Tribulation has many names:

In the Old Testament: “the time of Jacob’s Trouble,” “the Day of Israel’s Calamity,” “the Indignation,” “the Day of Vengeance,” “the Year of Recompense,” “the Day of Wrath,” “the Day of Darkness,” “the Day of Alarm,” among others. In the New Testament: “the Day of the Lord,” “the Wrath of God,” “the Wrath,” “the Great Tribulation,” “the Hour of Judgment,” and many more.