God Judges Evil, Rescues the Righteous

The world mocks the idea of divine wrath, but God judges perfectly and has already given us more than enough light to turn back. Every suppressed truth, every godless act, every refusal to repent will be brought into the light. Read carefully from Paul’s letter to the Romans and ask yourself: Is there any part of me that still needs to repent?

“The wrath of God is being revealed from heaven against all the godlessness and wickedness of people, who suppress the truth by their wickedness since what may be known about God is plain to them because God has made it plain to them. For since the creation of the world, God’s invisible qualities—His eternal power and divine nature—have been clearly seen so that people are without excuse.

For although they knew God, they neither glorified Him as God nor gave thanks to Him, but their thinking became futile, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Although they claimed to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images made to look like mortal human beings and birds and reptiles.

Therefore, God gave them over in the sinful desires of their hearts… They exchanged the truth of God for a lie and worshiped and served created things rather than the Creator—who is forever praised. Amen.

Furthermore, just as they did not think it worthwhile to retain the knowledge of God, God gave them over to a depraved mind so that they do what ought not to be done. They have become filled with every kind of wickedness, evil, greed, and depravity. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, and malice. They are gossips, slanderers, God-haters, insolent, arrogant, and boastful; they invent ways of doing evil; they disobey their parents; they have no understanding, no fidelity, no love, no mercy. The following Bible verse assures the child of God that they will be spared from this wrath, which is about to be poured out fully upon humanity’s wickedness. Additionally, Revelation 3:10 tells us the faithful Church of Philadelphia—a type of church present at the end of the Church Age—will be spared this terrible time of Tribulation: “Since you have kept my command to endure patiently, I will also keep you from the hour of trial that is going to come on the whole world to test the inhabitants of the Earth.” (Revelation 3:10)

The idea of the faithful being protected from catastrophic worldwide judgment is not unique to the New Testament. We see where the Old Testament says, “The Lord saw how great the wickedness of man had become on the Earth, and that every inclination of the thoughts of the heart was only evil all the time. The Lord regretted that He had made man on the Earth, and His heart was deeply troubled. So, the Lord said, ‘I will wipe from the face of the Earth the human race I have created… for I regret that I have made them.’ But Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord.” (Genesis 6:5-8)

For the sake of one righteous man, God chose to spare humanity. Genesis says the Earth was rotten to its core—corrupt, violent, beyond repair. So God told Noah to build an ark: a vessel of mercy to escape the coming judgment. While the world mocked, he built. Calloused hands. Unshakable faith. He warned of rain beneath a flawless sky. They